
[Page 1 - No Text Found. Using OCR...]

[Page 2 - Normal Text]
What’s the best way to create a PDF? 
You can create PDFs from documents printed on paper, Microsoft Word documents, InDesign® 
files, digital images, and more. Diﬀerent types of sources have diﬀerent tools available for PDF 
conversion. In many applications, you can create PDFs by selecting the Adobe PDF printer in 
the Print dialog box. 
If a file is open in its authoring application (such as a spreadsheet that is open in Microsoft 
Excel), you can convert it to PDF without opening Adobe Acrobat. Similarly, if Acrobat is 
already open, you don’t have to open the authoring application to convert a file to PDF. 
Every PDF balances eﬃciency (small file size) and quality (such as resolution and color). If the 
balance between the file size and the quality is critical to your task, you must use an 
appropriate conversion method. 
For example, you can drag files to the Acrobat icon to create PDFs. In this case, Acrobat 
applies the most recently used conversion settings without providing access to those settings. 
If you want more control over the process, you’ll want to use another method. 
PDF creation methods by file type 
Refer to the following lists to determine the methods available for the diﬀerent types of files. 
File Type 
PDF Creation Methods 
Any file format 
Method 1: From the top tools bar, select Create. Then, select a 
file type and then select the file that you want to convert to 
PDF. 
Or, select the hamburger menu 
 (Windows) or 
the File menu (macOS)  > Create and then select the 
appropriate file type and follow through the steps.  
Method 2: Drag and drop a file from your system to the 
Acrobat Home page. 
Method 3: Right-click on the file and then select Convert to 
Adobe PDF. 


[Page 3 - Normal Text]
Method 4: Open the file in its source application and go 
to Print > Adobe PDF printer. 
Paper documents 
(Requires a scanner) 
Method 1: From the top tools bar, select Create. Then, 
select Scanner as the file type, select the scanner, and follow 
through the steps or browse to locate a pre-scanned page.  
Or, select the hamburger menu 
 (Windows) or 
the File menu (macOS) > Create from scanner and follow 
through the workflow.  
Microsoft Oﬃce 
documents 
Method 1 (Windows only): From the authoring application 
toolbar, select Adobe Acrobat > Create and Share Adobe 
PDF. 
Method 2 (Windows only): Open the file in its source 
application and then go to Print > Adobe PDF printer. 
Method 3 (Windows only): Right-click on the file and 
select Convert to Adobe PDF. 
Method 4: Drag and drop the file from your system to the 
Acrobat Home page. 
Method 5 (macOS only): From the authoring application, 
select File > Print > PDF > Save as Adobe PDF. 
Email messages 
Method 1 (Windows only): Within Microsoft Outlook or Lotus 
Notes, select Acrobat PDFMaker or select Adobe PDF menu 
options (Outlook) or the Actions menu (Lotus Notes). 
Method 2 (Windows only): From the email application, go 
to Print > Adobe PDF Create a PDF (not a PDF Portfolio). 
Method 3 (Outlook 2010 or later): From the email folder or 
selection of messages, right-click and then select Convert to 
Adobe PDF. 


[Page 4 - Normal Text]
Web pages 
Method 1: From the top tools bar, select Create. Then, 
select Web page as the file type and follow through the 
steps.  
Or, select the hamburger menu 
 (Windows) or 
the File menu (macOS) > Create > PDF from web page and 
follow through the workflow.  
Method 2: Drag and drop the HTML file from your system to 
the Acrobat Home page. 
Method 3: Right-click on the file and then select Convert to 
Adobe PDF. 
Method 4: From the top-right corner of the webpage, 
select
> Print > Adobe PDF. 
Content copied on the 
clipboard 
Method 1: From the top tools bar, select Create. Then, 
select Clipboard as the file type and follow through the 
steps.  
Or, select the hamburger menu 
 (Windows) or 
the File menu (macOS) > Create > PDF from clipboard and 
follow through the workflow.  
AutoCAD files (Acrobat 
Pro for Windows only) 
Method 1: From the top tools bar, select Create and then 
select the file.  
Or, select the hamburger menu 
 (Windows) or 
the File menu (macOS) > Create > PDF from file and follow 
through the workflow.  
Method 2: Drag and drop the HTML file from your system to 
the Acrobat Home page. 
Method 3: Right-click the file and select Convert to Adobe 
PDF. 
Method 4: Within AutoCAD, go to Print > Adobe PDF. 


[Page 5 - Normal Text]
Adobe Photoshop, 
Adobe Illustrator, and 
Adobe InDesign files 
Method 1: From the top tools bar, select Create a PDF and 
then select the file.  
Or, select the hamburger menu 
 (Windows) or 
the File menu (macOS) > Create > PDF from file and follow 
through the workflow.  
Method 2: Drag and drop the file from your system to the 
Acrobat Home page. 
PostScript and EPS files 
Method 1: From the top tools bar, select Create and then 
select the file.  
Or, select the hamburger menu 
 (Windows) or 
the File menu (macOS) > Create > PDF from file and follow 
through the workflow.  
Method 2: Drag and drop the file from your system to the 
Acrobat Distiller icon or Acrobat Distiller window. 
3D files (Acrobat Pro) 
Method 1: From the top tools bar, select Create and then 
select the file.  
Or, select the hamburger menu 
 (Windows) or 
the File menu (macOS) > Create > PDF from file and follow 
through the workflow.  
Method 2: Drag and drop the HTML file from your system to 
the Acrobat Home page. 
Method 3: From Microsoft PowerPoint, select Adobe 
Presenter > Publish. 
 
Balance PDF file size and quality 
You can select various settings to ensure that your PDF has the best balance between file size, 
resolution, conformity to specific standards, and other factors. The settings you select depend 
on your goals for the PDF that you are creating. For example, a PDF intended for high-quality 


[Page 6 - Normal Text]
commercial printing requires diﬀerent settings than a PDF intended only for onscreen viewing 
and quick downloading over the Internet. 
Once selected, these settings apply across PDFMaker, Acrobat, and Acrobat Distiller. 
However, some settings are limited to specific contexts or file types. For example, PDFMaker 
options can vary among the diﬀerent types of Microsoft Oﬃce applications. 
For convenience, you can select one of the conversion presets available in Acrobat. You can 
also create, define, save, and reuse custom presets that are uniquely suited to your purposes. 
For scanned documents, you can choose from Autodetect Color Mode or several scanning 
presets that are optimized for scanning documents and images in color or black and white. 
You can modify these presets or use your own custom scanning settings. 
There are various ways to create a PDF file using Acrobat. You can generate a PDF quickly 
using the convert to PDF tool, menu commands, dragging-and-dropping files onto the 
Acrobat application icon, or converting clipboard data. 
 
 


[Page 7 - Normal Text]
Convert a file to PDF using Acrobat menu 
commands 
 
1. Do any of the following: 
• 
In Acrobat, select Create from the global toolbar. 
 
 
The Create a PDF tool opens. On the left rail, Single file is  
selected by default. Choose the Select a file button. 
 


[Page 8 - Normal Text]
• 
Select the hamburger menu 
 > Create > PDF from File (Windows), 
or File > Create > PDF from File (macOS). 
2. In the Open dialog box, select the ﬁle that you want to convert. You can browse all ﬁle 
types or select a speciﬁc type from the Files Of Type drop-down menu. 
 
3. Optionally, select Advanced settings to change the conversion options if you're 
converting an image file to PDF. The options available vary depending on the file type. 
  
Note:  
The Advanced settings button is unavailable if you choose All Files as the file type or 
if no conversion settings are available for the selected file type. (For example, the 
Advanced settings button is unavailable for Microsoft Word and Microsoft Excel files.) 
 
4. Select Create to convert the ﬁle to a PDF. 
 
Depending on the type of ﬁle being converted, the authoring applicaƟon opens 
automaƟcally, or a progress dialog box appears. If the ﬁle is in an unsupported format, a 
message appears, telling you that the ﬁle cannot be converted to PDF. 
 
5. When the new PDF opens, choose the hamburger menu 
  > Save or Save 
As (Windows), File > Save or File > Save As (macOS), and then select a name and 
location for the PDF. 
 


[Page 9 - Normal Text]
Note:  
When naming a PDF that’s intended for electronic distribution, limit the filename to eight 
characters (with no spaces) and include the .pdf extension. This action ensures that email 
programs or network servers don’t truncate the filename and that the PDF opens as expected. 
 
Convert a file to PDF using the Convert to PDF tool 
 
1. In Acrobat, select All tools > Convert to PDF. 
2. In the file explorer window that appears, select the file you want to convert to PDF, 
and select Open. 
3. The selected file is converted to PDF and opens in Acrobat. Choose the hamburger 
menu 
  > Save or Save As (Windows), File > Save or File > Save As (macOS), 
and then select a name and location for the PDF. 
 
Drag-and-drop to create PDFs 
This method is best for small, simple files, such as small image files and plain text files, when 
the balance between file size and output quality is not important. You can use this technique 
with many other types of files, but you cannot adjust any conversion settings during the 
process. 
1. Select the icons of one or more files in the Windows Explorer or macOS Finder. 
2. Drag the file icons onto the Acrobat application icon. Or (Windows only) drag the files 
into the open Acrobat window. 
  
If a message appears saying that the file could not be opened in Acrobat, then that 
file type cannot be converted to PDF by the drag-and-drop method. Use one of the 
other conversion methods for that file. 
  
Note:  
You can also convert PostScript and EPS files to PDF by dragging them onto 
the Acrobat window or the Acrobat application icon. 
3. Save the PDF. 
  
 


[Page 10 - Normal Text]
Note:  
(Windows only) You can also right-click a file in Windows Explorer and select Convert 
to Adobe PDF. 
 
Convert clipboard content to PDF 
You can create PDFs from text and images that you copy from applications on macOS or 
Windows. 
1. Capture content in the Clipboard: 
• 
Use the copy command in the applications. 
• 
Press the PrintScreen key (Windows). 
• 
Use the Screenshot utility (Applications > Utilities > Screenshot), and 
choose Edit > Copy to place the content on the clipboard (macOS). 
• 
In a PDF file, you can select objects using the Edit Object tool (All 
tools > Use print production > Edit object), and then copy the selected 
objects. 
• 
 
2. In Acrobat, choose Create > Clipboard > Create, or choose All tools > Create a 
PDF > Clipboard > Create. 
  
Note:  
The PDF from Clipboard command appears only when content is copied to the 
Clipboard. If the Clipboard is empty, the command is disabled. 
 
 
 


[Page 11 - Normal Text]
Create a blank PDF 
You can create a blank PDF, rather than beginning with a file, a clipboard image, or scanning. 
This process can be useful for creating a one-page PDF. For longer, more complex, or heavily 
formatted documents, it’s better to create the source document in an application that offers 
more layout and formatting options, such as Adobe InDesign or Microsoft Word. 
Do any of the following: 
• 
In Acrobat, select Create from the global bar. 
 
The Create a PDF tool opens. On the leŌ rail, select Blank page, and then select Create. 
 
• 
Select the hamburger menu 
 > Create > Blank Page (Windows), 
or File > Create > Blank Page (macOS). 
Acrobat creates a blank page PDF. 


[Page 12 - Normal Text]
Note:  
To add a blank page to an existing PDF, open the PDF and then choose Edit > Organize 
pages > Insert > Blank page. 
 
Create multiple PDFs from multiple files  
You can create multiple PDFs from multiple native files, including files of different supported 
formats, in one operation. This method is useful when you must convert a large number of files 
to PDF. 
Note: When you use this method, Acrobat applies the most recently used conversion settings 
without offering you access to those settings. If you want to adjust the conversion settings, do 
so before using this method. 
1. In Acrobat, select Create from the global bar. 
2. The Create a PDF tool opens. On the leŌ rail, select MulƟple ﬁles > Create mulƟple 
PDF ﬁles, and then select Next.  
3. Choose Add Files > Add Files or Add Folders, and then select the ﬁles or folder. 
4. Select OK. The Output opƟons dialog box appears. 
5. In the Output OpƟons dialog box, specify your target folder and ﬁlename 
preferences, and then select OK. 
Using PDFMaker within an authoring application is a simple, one-click procedure. It involves 
clicking an Acrobat PDFMaker toolbar button or choosing a command on the Adobe PDF menu.  
 
About Acrobat PDFMaker 
PDFMaker is an Acrobat feature that operates within many business applications, such as 
Microsoft Office applications, AutoCAD, and Lotus Notes. When you install Acrobat, 
PDFMaker controls appear in the work area of the authoring application. 
Note:  Some PDFMaker features are not available in certain versions of the authoring 
applications. For a comparison chart, see Compatible web browsers and PDFMaker 
applications | Acrobat, Reader. 
 
 
 


[Page 13 - Normal Text]
Using Create PDF cloud service for PDF 
conversion 
Acrobat provides an option to use Adobe Create PDF cloud service in addition to a local 
conversion to convert Microsoft Word documents to PDFs. The created PDFs are high-quality 
and provide exceptional visual fidelity. They are well-tagged for better accessibility. They also 
include link recognition so that hyperlinks, internal document links, and tables of contents are 
created as live links.  
 
 
 


[Page 14 - Normal Text]
Convert a file to PDF using PDFMaker 
In Windows, Acrobat installs both an Acrobat PDFMaker toolbar and an Adobe PDF menu in 
many popular authoring applications. You can use either the toolbar buttons or the Adobe 
PDF menu (the Action menu in Lotus Notes) to create PDFs, but the menu also provides access 
to conversion settings. Although many of the conversion options are common to all authoring 
applications, a few are application-specific. 
For Microsoft Office applications such as Word, Excel, and PowerPoint, the options for creating 
PDFs are available from the Acrobat ribbon. 
Note:  
If you don’t see the PDF toolbar buttons in an application, you must show or activate the PDF 
toolbar. For other troubleshooting issues, see Troubleshoot Acrobat PDFMaker Problems. 
 
Show or activate PDFMaker in Microsoft Office and Lotus Notes 
If the PDF toolbar buttons don’t appear in your Microsoft Office or Lotus Notes application, use 
one of the following methods to show or activate PDFMaker. 
For Lotus Notes 9, choose File > Preferences. In the dialog box that appears, 
choose Toolbar > Toolbars, and select the Visible option for Acrobat PDFMaker. 
For Microsoft Office, follow these steps: 
1. Select the File tab, and then choose Options. 
2. Select Add-Ins on the left side of the dialog box. 
3. Do one of the following: 
• 
If PDFMOutlook or Acrobat PDFMaker Office COM Add-in isn't listed, choose 
COM Add-Ins from the Manage pop-up menu and select Go. 
• 
If PDFMOutlook or Acrobat PDFMaker Office COM Add-in is listed under 
Disabled Application Add-ins, select Disabled Items from the Manage pop-up 
menu and select Go. 
4. Select PDFMOutlook or Acrobat PDFMaker Office COM Add-in and select OK. 
5. Restart the Office application. 
 
 
 


[Page 15 - Normal Text]
Convert a file to PDF 
1. Open the file in the application used to create it. 
2. Select the Convert To Adobe PDF button 
 on the Acrobat PDFMaker toolbar. 
  
For Microsoft Office applications, such as Word, Excel, and PowerPoint, select 
the Create PDF button  
 on the Acrobat ribbon. 
3. Enter a filename and location for the PDF, and select Save. 
4. (Optional) Check View Result to open the PDF or enable Protect PDF to specify 
the Security settings for the PDF. 
 
Create a PDF and share the link for viewing or commenting 
Applicable to Microsoft Word, Excel, and PowerPoint 
1. Open the file in the application used to create it. 
2. Do any of the following: 
• 
From the Home tab, choose Create PDF and share link.  
 
• 
Select File > Share > Create PDF and share link > Create PDF and Share link. 
 
 
 


[Page 16 - Normal Text]
• 
Select File > Share as Adobe PDF link. 
 
 
3. Acrobat converts the file to PDF, displays it in Acrobat, and copies the shareable link. 
You can share the link with the desired recipients. 
 
Create a PDF and share via Outlook 
Applicable to Microsoft Word, Excel, and PowerPoint 
1. Open the file in the application used to create it. 
2. Do any of the following: 
• 
From the Home tab, choose Create PDF and Share via Outlook. 


[Page 17 - Normal Text]
 
 
• 
From the Acrobat tab, choose Create PDF and Share via Outlook. 
 
 
• 
Select File > Share > Email > Create PDF and Share via Outlook. 
 
3. Acrobat converts the file into a PDF, creates a shareable link, and opens Outlook with 
the link in a new message draft. 
4. You can edit the message as desired, add the recipient's email addresses, and then 
select Send. 
 
 


[Page 18 - Normal Text]
Create a PDF as an email attachment 
1. Open the file in the application used to create it. 
2. Choose Adobe PDF > Convert To Adobe PDF And Email. 
  
For Microsoft Office applications, such as Word, Excel, and PowerPoint, click 
the Create And Share button on the Acrobat ribbon. 
  
When the conversion has finished, the PDF is opened in Adobe Acrobat. Click 
the Send File By Email icon (
 ) in Acrobat. For more information, see Share a 
PDF as an email attachment. 
 
Attach a file as PDF (Outlook) 
1. In the Outlook email Message window, click Acrobat > Attach as Adobe PDF button. 
2. Select a file to attach, and click Open. 
 
Convert files to a secured PDF and attach it to an email message 
(Outlook) 
1. In the Outlook email Message window, click the Attach As Secured Adobe 
PDF button 
. 
  
Note:  
The Attach As Secured Adobe PDF button appears only after you’ve configured an 
Adobe Experience Manager Document Security using the All tools > Protect a 
PDF > Set Security Properties > Security Method. 
2. Click Browse, select a file to convert, and click Open. 
3. Specify the users that can open the PDF, and then click OK: 
  
• 
To specify only users that receive the PDF, select Restrict Access Only To 
People In This Message’s To:, Cc:, And Bcc: List. In this case, the PDF isn’t 
secured until you send the email message. 
• 
To specify only users that are specified by a security policy, select Restrict 
Access By Applying The Following Security Policy, and then select a security 
policy in the list. In this case, the PDF is secured before it is attached to the 
email message. 


[Page 19 - Normal Text]
4. If prompted, enter your user name and password to log in to the Adobe 
LiveCycleRights Management Server. 
 
Create a PDF and send it for review 
1. Open the file in the application used to create it. 
2. Click the Convert To Adobe PDF And Send For Review button 
 on the Acrobat 
PDFMaker toolbar, or (if available) choose Adobe PDF > Convert To Adobe PDF And 
Send For Review. 
3. When the Identity Setup dialog box appears, enter the appropriate information 
about yourself, and click Complete. 
4. Follow the directions in the wizard that appears, as described in Start an email-based 
review. 
 
Create a PDF and run an action 
1. Open the file in the application used to create it. 
2. Click the Convert To Adobe PDF And Run Action button on the Acrobat PDFMaker 
toolbar, or (if available) choose Adobe PDF > Convert To Adobe PDF And Run Action. 
  
For Microsoft Office 2010 applications such as Word, Excel, and PowerPoint, click 
the Create PDF And Run Action button on the Acrobat ribbon. 
3. Click an action to from the button menu, and follow the onscreen prompts to save 
the files. 
4. The PDF opens in Acrobat. Click Start in the right-hand pane to process the file. 
 
 
 


[Page 20 - Normal Text]
View PDFMaker conversion settings 
PDFMaker conversion settings vary according to file types. For example, the options available 
for PowerPoint files aren’t the same as the options available for Outlook files. Once you’ve 
selected conversion settings, those choices apply to all subsequent PDFs you create from that 
file type. It’s a good idea to review the settings occasionally. 
1. Open a PDFMaker-enabled application (such as Word or Excel). 
2. Do one of the following: 
  
• 
(Lotus Notes) Choose Actions > Change Adobe PDF Conversion Settings. 
• 
(Office 2010 applications) In the Acrobat or Adobe PDF ribbon, 
click Preferences. 
• 
(All other applications) Choose Adobe PDF > Change Conversion Settings. 
3. (Optional) To revert to the original default settings, click Restore Defaults on 
the Settings tab. 
 
Settings tab of the Adobe PDFMaker preferences 
The settings available for PDFMaker depend on the application in which you’re using 
PDFMaker. 
Conversion Settings 
Specifies the standard by which the PDF will be optimized. When you choose an item in the 
menu, a description of that preset appears immediately below it. 
View Adobe PDF Result 
Opens the converted document directly into Acrobat. (Exception: when you choose Convert To 
Adobe PDF And Email.) 
Prompt For Adobe PDF File Name 
Lets you enter a custom filename for the resulting PDF. Deselect this option to save the file in 
the same folder as the source file, using the same name but with a .pdf extension. 
Convert Document Information 
Adds document information from the Properties dialog box of the source file. This setting 
overrides the printer preferences and settings in the Advanced panel of the Adobe PDF 
Settings dialog box. 
Note:  


[Page 21 - Normal Text]
The Advanced Settings button opens the Adobe PDF Settings dialog box, which contains many 
additional conversion options. These conversion settings apply to all Acrobat features that 
create PDFs, such as Acrobat Distiller, PDFMaker, and the Acrobat application itself. 
PDF/A Compliance 
Creates the PDF so that it conforms to the selected ISO standard for long-term preservation of 
electronic documents. 
 
Security tab of the Adobe PDFMaker preferences 
The settings available for PDFMaker depend on the application in which you’re using 
PDFMaker. 
Require A Password To Open The Document 
When selected, makes the Document Open Password option available, where you enter a 
password that users must use to open the document. 
Restrict Editing And Printing Of The Document 
When selected, makes the other Permissions options available. 
Change Permissions Password 
Specifies a password you set that users must use in order to do any allowable printing or 
editing. 
Printing Allowed 
Specifies whether users who use the Permissions Password can print the document and at 
what resolution. 
Changes Allowed 
Specifies what changes users who use the Permissions Password can make. 
Enable Copying Of Text, Images, And Other Contents 
Prevents or allows users from copying from the PDF. 
Enable Text Access For Screen Reader Devices For The Visually Impaired 
Prevents or allows screen reader devices to read text. (Selected by default.) 
Enable Plaintext Metadata 
Specifies whether the search engine can read the document metadata. Available only when the 
PDF-compatibility is set to Acrobat 6.0 (PDF 1.5) or later. 


[Page 22 - Normal Text]
Convert Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, and 
Excel files to PDF 
When creating a PDF from Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, or Excel, you can set conversion 
options for the current file. You can also select a range of content in the file to convert. The 
conversion options that you can set in the following steps are some of the most commonly used 
settings from the Acrobat PDFMaker dialog box. Any changes you make to the conversion 
options apply to the current conversion only. 
 
Convert Excel files to PDF 
1. Open a file in Excel. 
2. Optionally, select the cells to convert. 
3. From the Acrobat ribbon, select one of the Create options. 
4. In the Acrobat PDFMaker dialog box, select a Conversion Range, then 
choose Convert To PDF. 
5. In the Save Adobe PDF File As dialog box, specify a filename and location for the PDF. 
6. Optionally, select the Options button to change the conversion settings. 
7. Select Save to create the PDF. 
 
Convert Word and PowerPoint files to PDF 
1. Open a file in Word or PowerPoint. 
2. Optionally, select objects and text (Word) or slides (PowerPoint), as needed. 
3. (Office 2010) From the Acrobat ribbon, select Create PDF, Create And Attach to Email, 
or Create And Send For Review. 
4. In the Save Adobe PDF File As dialog box, specify a filename and location for the PDF. 
5. Optionally, click the Options button to change the conversion settings. 
6. Select a Page Range (Word) or Slide Range (PowerPoint). The Selection option is 
available only if you have selected content in the file. 
7. Click OK, then click Save to create the PDF. 


[Page 23 - Normal Text]
Convert email messages to PDFs 
You can use PDFMaker to convert one or more Microsoft Outlook or Lotus Notes email 
messages or entire folders of messages to a merged PDF or PDF Portfolio. Within a PDF 
Portfolio, each email message appears as a separate PDF file. 
The Acrobat PDFMaker Conversion Settings dialog box contains the option that determines 
whether email messages are merged into one continuous PDF or assembled into a PDF 
Portfolio. 
The controls that activate an email conversion to PDF appear in two places within the email 
application: on the Acrobat PDFMaker toolbar and on a menu. In Outlook, the menu is 
called Adobe PDF and appears to the right of the Outlook Help menu. In Lotus Notes, PDF 
commands appear under the Actions menu. 
Note:  
You can convert one currently open email message to PDF (not to a PDF Portfolio) by 
choosing File > Print, and selecting Adobe PDF as the printer in the Print dialog box. The 
PDFMaker conversion settings do not affect this process. 
 
Specify whether email messages become merged PDFs or PDF 
Portfolios 
1. Do one of the following: 
• 
(Outlook) Choose Acrobat > Change Conversion Settings. 
• 
(Lotus Notes) Choose Actions > Change Adobe PDF Conversion Settings. 
2. Do one of the following: 
• 
To convert and merge email messages into a PDF as sequential pages of one 
document, deselect Output Adobe PDF Portfolio When Creating A New PDF 
File. 
• 
To assemble converted email messages as components of a PDF Portfolio, 
select Output Adobe PDF Portfolio When Creating A New PDF File. 
 
Convert an open email message to PDF (Outlook) 
1. Choose Acrobat > Convert To Adobe PDF. 
Note: You can also convert a different file to PDF from within an open Outlook email message if 
the Attach As Adobe PDF toolbar is shown. Clicking this button opens a series of dialog boxes 


[Page 24 - Normal Text]
for selecting and saving the new PDF and also starts Acrobat, if it is not already running. The 
resulting PDF is attached to the open email message. 
 
Convert email messages to a new PDF 
1. In Outlook or Lotus Notes, select the individual email messages. 
2. Do one of the following: 
• 
(Outlook) Choose Acrobat > Selected Messages > Create New PDF. 
• 
(Lotus Notes) Choose Actions > Convert Selected Messages To Adobe PDF. 
3. In the Save Adobe PDF As dialog box, select a location, type a filename, and 
click Save. 
 
Add email messages or folders to an existing PDF 
1. In Outlook or Lotus Notes, select the individual email messages or folders. 
2. Do one of the following: 
• 
(Outlook) Choose Acrobat > Selected Messages > Append To Existing PDF, 
or Acrobat > Selected Folders > Append To Existing PDF. 
  
Note: If you have already created one or more PDF Portfolios, you can choose from 
recently created PDF Portfolios in addition to the Append To Existing PDF option. 
 
• 
(Lotus Notes) Choose Actions > Append Selected Message(s) To Existing 
Adobe PDF, or Actions > Append Selected Folder(s) To Existing Adobe PDF. 
3. Locate and select the PDF or PDF Portfolio to which you want to add the converted 
emails, and click Open. 
  
Note: Do not type a new name for the PDF. If you do, a warning message appears 
telling you that the PDF was not found. Click OK, and select a PDF without changing 
its name. 
 
4. (Outlook only) If a message appears, alerting you that the existing PDF was created 
using an earlier version of PDFMaker, do one of the following: 
  
• 
To create a PDF Portfolio from the original PDF archive, click Yes, and select a 
name and location for the new archive. (The default name adds _Portfolio to 
the original PDF filename.) When the conversion is complete and the Creating 
Adobe PDF dialog box closes, the new archive opens in Acrobat. 
• 
Click No to cancel the process. 


[Page 25 - Normal Text]
Note:  
For PDF Portfolios of email converted or migrated in Acrobat 8 or later, only new messages—
that is, messages that are not already part of the PDF Portfolio—are appended. 
 
Convert email folders to a new PDF 
PDFMaker can convert multiple folders to PDF in one procedure. It is not necessary to select the 
folders at the beginning of the process because you can select them in a dialog box that 
appears automatically. 
1. Do one of the following: 
• 
(Outlook) Choose Acrobat > Selected Folders > Create New PDF. 
• 
(Lotus Notes) Choose Actions > Convert Selected Folder(s) To Adobe PDF. 
2. In the Convert Folder(s) To PDF dialog box, select the folders. Then select or deselect 
the Convert This Folder And All Sub Folders option. 
3. In the Save Adobe PDF File As, select a location and name for the PDF Portfolio. 
When the conversion is complete, the new PDF opens in Acrobat. 
 
 
 
 
 
 


[Page 26 - Normal Text]
Set up automatic email archiving 
1. Do one of the following: 
• 
(Outlook) Choose Acrobat > Setup Automatic Archival. 
• 
(Lotus Notes) Choose Actions > Setup Automatic Archival. 
2. On the Automatic Archival tab of the Acrobat PDFMaker dialog box, select Enable 
Automatic Archival. Then select options for Frequency and the time of day at which 
automatic archiving occurs. 
3. Select other options, according to your needs: 
  
Maintain Log Of Archival 
Creates a record of each archiving session. 
  
Choose File 
Specifies the name and location of the archiving log. 
  
Embed Index For Faster Search 
Creates an index that you can search to find specific words or characters instead of 
having to search each individual document. 
4. Click Add, and select the email folders and subfolders. Then select or deselect 
the Convert This Folder And All Sub Folders option, as preferred, and click OK. 
5. In the Save PDF Archive File As dialog box, select a name and location for the 
archived email PDF. Then click Open. 
6. Review the settings and the archive folder names listed in the Acrobat 
PDFMaker dialog box, and do any of the following: 
• 
To add other email folders to the list, click Add and select the folder. 
• 
To remove folders from the list, select the folders and click Delete. 
• 
To change an archive file, select any folder name from the list, click Change 
Archive File, and specify the name and location. 
• 
To start archiving email immediately, click Run Archival Now. 
 


[Page 27 - Normal Text]
Create PDFs from Word mail merges 
Mail merges from Word generate documents like form letters—for one common example—
that are personalized with information like the names and addresses of the recipients. With 
Acrobat PDFMaker, you can save steps by using a Word mail merge document and 
corresponding data file to output mail merges directly to PDF. You can even set up PDFMaker to 
attach those PDFs to email messages that are generated during the PDF-creation process. 
Note:  
For information on setting up files for the Word Mail Merge feature, see Microsoft Office Word 
Help. 
1. In Microsoft Word, open the template that you have created as the basis of your mail 
merge, or create the file using the Word Mail Merge toolbar and Mail Merge wizard, 
as needed. 
  
Note: Do not complete the mail merge in Word. Instead, set up and preview the mail 
merge as usual, so that you can verify that the merge will work correctly. 
2. Do one of the following: 
• 
Choose Acrobat > Mail Merge. 
• 
Click the Mail Merge To Adobe PDF button on the Mail Merge toolbar (View > 
Toolbars > Mail Merge). 
3. In the Acrobat PDFMaker - Mail Merge dialog box, select the options you want: 
  
• 
To specify which records in the data file will be imported into the merged 
files, select All or Current, or enter a range of pages by typing in 
the From and To boxes. 
• 
To name the PDF that will be created, type in the Specify PDF File Name box. 
  
Note: The PDF will be named using this text plus a series of numbers. For example, if 
you type JulyLetter in the Specify PDF File Name box, the mail-merged PDFs 
might appear as JulyLetter_0000123, JulyLetter_0000124, JulyLetter_0000125, and 
so forth. 
 
4. For Automatically Send Adobe PDF Files By Email, do one of the following: 
• 
To create and save merged PDFs for printing or sending later in email, leave 
the option deselected, and click OK. 
• 
To create merged PDFs and attach each one to an email message to the 
appropriate recipient, select this check box, and fill in the other Email options. 


[Page 28 - Normal Text]
5. When the Browse For Folder dialog box appears, navigate to the location you want 
to use and click OK. 
 
Status indicators appear as PDFMaker generates the individual PDFs, 
6. If you selected Automatically Send Adobe PDF Files By Email, a dialog box appears 
asking for your email profile. Enter the appropriate information and click OK. 
When the job has finished, a message appears, telling you that the process was successful. 
 
Email options for PDF mail merges 
To 
Use the pop-up menu to select the field or column in the associated data file that contains the 
email addresses in each individual’s record. 
Subject Line 
Type the text that you want to appear in the subject line of each message. 
Message 
Type to add or edit text that you want to appear in the body of the email messages. 
 
 


[Page 29 - Normal Text]
Convert Visio files to PDF (Acrobat Pro) 
PDFs created from Visio files preserve page sizes and support layers, searchable text, custom 
properties, links, bookmarks, and comments, depending on the conversion settings. To specify 
the properties 
• 
(Visio 2010) From the ribbon choose Acrobat > Preferences 
When you convert your Visio file, only shapes and guides that are printable and visible in the 
Visio drawing are converted and appear in the PDF. Shapes are converted regardless of their 
protection or behavior. Shape custom properties can be converted to PDF object data. 
When you convert the Visio file to a PDF, you can preserve all or just some layers, or you can 
flatten all layers. If you flatten layers, the PDF will look like the original drawing, but won’t 
contain any layer information. When flattened, the contents of only visible and printable layers 
will appear in the converted PDF. 
 
Convert Visio files 
1. If you want to change the PDFMaker conversion settings, do the following. (For 
information about a setting, place the pointer over the setting to display a tool tip 
below.) 
• 
(Visio 2010) Choose Acrobat > Preferences 
2. If you want to convert each page in the Visio file to a bookmarked page in the PDF 
file, choose Adobe PDF > Convert All Pages In Drawing. If this option is deselected, 
only the current page is converted. 
3. Do one of the following: 
• 
(Visio 2010) Choose Acrobat > Create PDF. 
• 
(Visio 2010) Choose Acrobat > Convert To Adobe PDF.  
• 
(Visio 2010) Choose Acrobat > Create and Attach To Email. The PDF file 
attaches to a new email message in your default email application.  
• 
(Visio 2010) Choose Acrobat > Create and Send For Review. The file converts 
to an Adobe PDF file, and an email-based review process begins.  
4. If you want to include the custom properties of shapes, select that option. 
5. Click Continue. 
6. Select a layers option to retain or flatten layers in the resulting PDF, and 
click Continue. 
  


[Page 1 - OCR Extracted Text]
Learn Acrobat:
Create and Convert

Adobe
